README.md, before:

# CMake Hello

Testing how to set up cmake for project with following structure:

```
.
├── CMakeLists.txt
├── include
│   ├── low
│   │   └── low.h
│   └── mid
│       └── mid.h
├── Makefile
├── README.md
├── src
│   ├── low
│   │   └── low.cpp
│   ├── main.cpp
│   └── mid
│       └── mid.cpp
└── tests
    ├── CMakeLists.txt
    └── low
        └── test_low.cpp
```

and following dependencies (`A -> B` means `A` depends on `B`):

```
main -> mid -> low
```

Check commits one-by-one as they:

* start with not using CMake at all and building the thing using plain g++,
* use the simplest CMake 
* hide the growing complexity to Makefile
* adds configure, build and test to GitHub pipeline.
* use hierarchical CMake files
* add unit tests
* adds AI based code review
4. Use external dependencies
5. Use CPM

### TODO

3. Linting

## No build system

Without any build system help we are getting nasty `g++` invocation like this:

```
mkdir build
g++ -I include -o build/hello src/main.cpp src/mid/mid.cpp src/low/low.cpp
```

You can run your program using

```
./build/hello
```

It works, but it is not nice and for more complicated project this would get much more ugly.

## Using CMake

All configuration is set in the [`CMakeLists.txt`](/CMakeLists.txt) file.

Configure is required when modifying configuration, adding, renaming or moving files,
or when inter-files dependencies are changed and for the first run of coure.
It is done for `make` build system by

```
cmake -S . -B build/
```

or e.g. to use `ninja`

```
cmake -S . -B build/ -G Ninja
```

The build itself then goes with:

```
cmake --build build/
```

You can run your program using

```
./build/hello
```

## Hiding the complexity

It started to get bit ugly in previous section so we added helper Makefile
to run previous commands. Now you can just use `make run` 

## Debugging cmake projects with VS code

[This guide][vscode] describes how to get debugger working. It is surprisingly neat, only
thing to be aware of is that it does not binds to built-in Debug/Run (F5/Ctrl+F5)
functionality but uses bottom bar buttons.

[vscode]: https://www.pragmaticlinux.com/2021/07/import-a-cmake-project-into-visual-studio-code/

## References

* https://blog.feabhas.com/2021/06/why-we-need-build-systems/
* https://blog.feabhas.com/2021/07/cmake-part-1-the-dark-arts/
* https://github.com/marketplace/actions/openai-code-review-github-action

Commit message:

Mention template c++/cmake/cpm repository template from author of CPM

README.md, after:

# CMake Hello

For starting a new project, see [ModernCppStarter] repo from original author of CPM.

[ModernCppStarter]: https://github.com/TheLartians/ModernCppStarter

Testing how to set up cmake for project with following structure:

```
.
├── CMakeLists.txt
├── include
│   ├── low
│   │   └── low.h
│   └── mid
│       └── mid.h
├── Makefile
├── README.md
├── src
│   ├── low
│   │   └── low.cpp
│   ├── main.cpp
│   └── mid
│       └── mid.cpp
└── tests
    ├── CMakeLists.txt
    └── low
        └── test_low.cpp
```

and following dependencies (`A -> B` means `A` depends on `B`):

```
main -> mid -> low
```

Check commits one-by-one as they:

* start with not using CMake at all and building the thing using plain g++,
* use the simplest CMake 
* hide the growing complexity to Makefile
* adds configure, build and test to GitHub pipeline.
* use hierarchical CMake files
* add unit tests
* adds AI based code review
4. Use external dependencies
5. Use CPM

### TODO

3. Linting

## No build system

Without any build system help we are getting nasty `g++` invocation like this:

```
mkdir build
g++ -I include -o build/hello src/main.cpp src/mid/mid.cpp src/low/low.cpp
```

You can run your program using

```
./build/hello
```

It works, but it is not nice and for more complicated project this would get much more ugly.

## Using CMake

All configuration is set in the [`CMakeLists.txt`](/CMakeLists.txt) file.

Configure is required when modifying configuration, adding, renaming or moving files,
or when inter-files dependencies are changed and for the first run of coure.
It is done for `make` build system by

```
cmake -S . -B build/
```

or e.g. to use `ninja`

```
cmake -S . -B build/ -G Ninja
```

The build itself then goes with:

```
cmake --build build/
```

You can run your program using

```
./build/hello
```

## Hiding the complexity

It started to get bit ugly in previous section so we added helper Makefile
to run previous commands. Now you can just use `make run` 

## Debugging cmake projects with VS code

[This guide][vscode] describes how to get debugger working. It is surprisingly neat, only
thing to be aware of is that it does not binds to built-in Debug/Run (F5/Ctrl+F5)
functionality but uses bottom bar buttons.

[vscode]: https://www.pragmaticlinux.com/2021/07/import-a-cmake-project-into-visual-studio-code/

## References

* https://blog.feabhas.com/2021/06/why-we-need-build-systems/
* https://blog.feabhas.com/2021/07/cmake-part-1-the-dark-arts/
* https://github.com/marketplace/actions/openai-code-review-github-action
